Documentation notes for Range field histograms (#46890)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/aggregations/bucket/histogram-aggregation.asciidoc

[[search-aggregations-bucket-histogram-aggregation]]
=== Histogram Aggregation

A multi-bucket values source based aggregation that can be applied on numeric values or numeric range values extracted

> from the documents.  It dynamically builds fixed size (a.k.a. interval) buckets over the values. For example, if the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the documents. It dynamically builds fixed size (a.k.a. interval) buckets over the values. For example, if the
```

documents have a field that holds a price (numeric), we can configure this aggregation to dynamically build buckets with
interval `5` (in case of price it may represent $5). When the aggregation executes, the price field of every document
will be evaluated and will be rounded down to its closest bucket - for example, if the price is `32` and the bucket size
is `5` then the rounding will yield `30` and thus the document will "fall" into the bucket that is associated with the
key `30`.
To make this more formal, here is the rounding function that is used:

[source,java]
--------------------------------------------------
bucket_key = Math.floor((value - offset) / interval) * interval + offset
--------------------------------------------------

> For range values, a document can fall into multiple buckets.  The first bucket is computed from the lower

Reviewer 2: Do we need similar warnings on the date_histo docs?

Author: Currently, date histo refers back to histo for all non-interval related details, so I followed that convention.

> For range values, a document can fall into multiple buckets.  The first bucket is computed from the lower

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For range values, a document can fall into multiple buckets. The first bucket is computed from the lower
```

> In the case of range values, the document can fall into multiple buckets.  The first bucket is computed from the lower

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For range values, a document can fall into multiple buckets.  The first bucket is computed from the lower
```

--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:sales]

> When aggregating ranges, it is also possible to get buckets outside of your query. If the range is included in the

Reviewer: I think the last sentence of this para is pretty important. I'd bring it to the front and reword. Something like this:

```
When aggregating based on range values,
buckets are based on the values of returned documents.
This means the response may include buckets outside of a query's range.

For example, 
a query returns documents containing a range value greater than `100`
and uses an interval of `50`.
A returned document contains a range value of `50` to `150`.
Because buckets are based on document values rather than the query,
the response counts this document in three buckets:
`50`, `100`, and `150`.
```
